# ACT - Gender Equality Audit and Monitoring (GEAM) - Reporting Template

R bookdown files for generating descriptive statistics and illustrations for the GEAM Core questionnaire. 

The GEAM is an integrated environment for carrying out survey-based gender equality audits in organizations. It aims to enable interested researchers as well as gender equality practitioners with little experience in the social sciences and survey methodology to construct high-quality questionnaires. 

Documenation on the GEAM, including a manual, is available at [https://geam.act-on-gender.eu](https://geam.act-on-gender.eu). 

This respository contains the R files for generating a descriptive report based upon the data generated by the GEAM Core questionnaire. This includes frequency tables for each question/item as well as illustrations. The output format is either an interactive html file or a word (docx) single file. 

# Instructions

First, download or clone this repository and save it to a destination folder of your choice on your computer. 

## Download your LimeSurvey data

1. Logon to your LimeSurvey account and export the result dataset under "Responses > Responses and statistics > Export Responses". Under export format choose "R (data file)". Under "Headings" select "Question code" only. Under "Responses" use "Answer codes". Save the downloaded file in the `data-raw` folder of the report (see previous section). Don't change the name of the downloaded file. 

2. Export the survey structure of your questionnaire: "Display/Export > Survey structure (.lss)". Save the survey structure into the `data-raw/` folder. Do not change the default file name. 

3. Open `util/preprocess_lss.R` and assign your LimeSurvey ID to  `lsid <- 123456`. If your survey uses another language than English adjust the `lsLangCode` variable accordingly (e.g. `lsLangCode <- "es"` for a Spanish questionnaire.)

4. "Source"  `util/preprocess_lss.R` file which will construct the correctly labelled R dataframe and save it into the `data/` folder. 

## Generate the report

5. Rename `config.sample.R` to `config.R`. Open and adjust the LimeSurvey ID. 
6. Open the `index.Rmd` file, adjust author fields and organization name. 
7. Render the report by copy/pasting the following command in the console for a word-based report: 

```
bookdown::render_book("index.Rmd", "bookdown::word_document2")
```

or an interactive, web-based format: 


```
bookdown::render_book("index.Rmd", "bookdown::gitbook")
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>


This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 788204
